---
layout: page
title: About
navigation: true
logo: 'assets/images/CIA_20190301_13250.JPG'
current: about
---

Michel was born and raised in the small East German town of Dessau, just a little over an hour drive south of Berlin. Growing up in a largely non-artistic family, but under the ubiquitous influence of local and European art, music, philosophy and literature, namely the Bauhaus School of Architecture and Design, he early on developed a keen interest in everything sounding and performative. Fueled by his first public concerts and successes in national guitar competitions, he decided to move to the city of Weimar to study guitar with Christiane Spannhof at the University of Music "Franz Liszt". There he had a chance to expand his notion of Western and non-Western musical traditions, in part thanks to his encounter and subsequent friendship with composer, pianist and cultural activist Alan Bern whose teachings on improvisation and secular Jewish music sowed the seeds for Michel's own improvised music ensemble and inspired some early instrumental song writing. After working for Alan's socio-cultural organization, the "Other Music Academy", between 2016 and 2017, Michel decided to move to Los Angeles that same year and began his studies as a music performance major at the California Institute of the Arts in Santa Clarita. With guitarist and composer Miroslav Tadic having been one of his main teachers since, he soon rediscovered his love for Jewish songs, giving rise to a Theodore Bikel Yiddish song cycle which he worked on with the generous support of Aimee Ginsburg Bikel between 2018 and 2020. He also returned to improvised music and his common roots with the Bauhaus in his latest interdisciplinary work, the "Kandinsky Sonic-Visual Project" (2019). In addition, Michel continues to perform music by contemporary composers, most recently with Yuval Sharon's The Industry LA in the opera production "Sweet Land" (2020), and organize and participate in sound baths and other immersive performances with the DTLA based art collective DWP Movement. Another passion of his that started with the arrival of the first refugees from the Syrian civil war in Germany in 2016 and took a new direction under the guidance of composer and peace activist Yuval Ron in LA, is playing and adapting for the eastern long-necked lute saz.

